# CC_proj1

Jimmy Song
Computational Creativity

"One-Sided Pokemon Battle"

My system displays a simple battle between two Pokemon: Blissey and Arceus. Blissey, known for having high levels of HP and special defense, will be attacked by an array of 5 powerful attacks from Arceus, the literal god of all Pokemon. It uses a first order Markov Chain to decide the order of attacks from Arceus's four available moves. The Battle class consists of the __init__() function to initialize, get_health() to return Blissey's health stat (HP), get_next_attack() to take in the current attack used by Arceus and return the next attack based on the entered transition matrix, and generate_battle() to implement the get_next_attack() function and create an array of 5 attacks, updating Blissey's health stat based on the damage assigned to each attack used. The main() function I made creates a Battle class, inputting a transition matrix for Arceus's moveset. It then reads all the images needed for the ensuing battle and displays it with
matplotlib. Finally, based on whether the attacks took all of Blissey's health, it is displayed whether Blissey survived or was defeated.

To set up the and run the code all you need to do is click the "run" button, and it displays a strip of images and descriptions on what occured in the battle. Arceus uses 5 of his moves based on the probability distributions, and based on the total damage dealt, which may or may not have exceeded Blissey's total health, we see whether Blissey survived the battle. Each time running should return a different selection/order of attacks, but Blissey should be able to survive most of the time, because the odds of Arceus using his strongest attack, Judgement, is relatively low compared to his other moves.

This system is particularly meaningful to me because Pokemon was such a huge part of my childhood. I would spend many hours on my DS playing the games and strategizing for the battles, so I thought it would be really interesting to simulate a battle through coding, albeit a simple one. For the majority of the time in the games, you are playing against computer-generated Pokemon or trainers, who have relatively randomized moves that will be used against you. What I did was put you (Blissey) against the God of all Pokemon, and all you can do is hope and pray that the moves that he lands on will not KO you.

Working on this code was challenging for me as a computer scientist because I have never translated my code into a form of visual art. I was put out of my comfort zone by having to self-learn matplotlib to allow users to visualize the battle, not just generate the sequence of attacks and results. It was particularly cumbersome figuring out how to create subplots and put the images side-by-side. In addition, this was an important and necessary challenge for me because this was my first coding project since last year; I was relearning Python and many coding concepts along the way, as I was abroad for an Economics program in the spring and was unable to do much coding. In my next steps going forward in Computational Creativity, I hope to create more complex systems and experiment with different algorithms and even languages. If I had more time in this project, I would have introduced Pokemon and attack typings, allowed both sides to attack, and also introduced more optionality for what Pokemon is chosen.

I believe my system is creative because it falls under the category of combinatorial creativity; I used my memory of Pokemon and combined it with our recent knowledge about Markov Chains. The first order Markov chain was implemented to decide what move/attack order Arceus uses, and other conditinals and statistics (like Blissey's HP) are considered to determine the outcome of the very one-sided battle: whether Blissey survives or not. Additionally, I gave Arceus a unique moveset of attacks of different damages and typings that he would typically not have in the games.

I did not rely on many outside sources for this project, but I did use a bit of my classmate Khalil's help to remember how to connect my code in vscode to GitHub.